RFC 165 (#3615)
taskcluster/taskcluster: changelog/issue-3615.md

audience: general
level: major
reference: issue 3615
---
RFC 165 has been implemented, allowing for greater administrator control over
"public" endpoints. Previously these were guarded by no scopes and could be
accessed by anyone with no way to limit this. In this release all
unauthenticated API calls are now granted the scope `assume:anonymous`.
Additionally, most previously unprotected endpoints are now guarded by at
least one scope, to enable the following:

* To maintain current behavior, some scopes will need to be granted to the `anonymous`role. Refer to

> `the [anonymous role section](https://docs.taskcluster.net/docs/manual/deploying/anonymous-role) in the docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the [anonymous role section](https://docs.taskcluster.net/docs/manual/deploying/anonymous-role) in the docs.
```
It looks like a rogue backtick has gotten in here.

Reviewer 2: Good catch!

audience: general
level: major
reference: issue 3615
---

> RFC 165 - anonymous API calls are now granted the `assume:anonymous` scope, in order that public API methods can be guarded from public view in private taskcluster deployments. Additionally, the scope expressions of all API customer-facing API methods now include `service:<serviceName>:<methodName>`. Since `service:*` is granted to the anonymous role in Community Taskcluster and Firefox CI Taskcluster, there should be no behavioural change to these taskcluster deployments. However, administrators of private taskcluster deployments can adjust the `anonymous` role in order to further restrict access to specific API methods.

Author: Thanks for this. During the implementation, we decided to not generically guard endpoints with `service:<serviceName>:<methodName>` (see https://github.com/taskcluster/taskcluster/pull/3615#discussion_r499785380) so I'll adapt your improved version to accommodate the variations from the original RFC (and I'll update the RFC too to reflect what we actually implemented, in a separate PR).

audience: general
level: major
reference: issue 3615
---
RFC 165 has been implemented, allowing for greater administrator control over
"public" endpoints. Previously these were guarded by no scopes and could be
accessed by anyone with no way to limit this. In this release all
unauthenticated API calls are now granted the scope `assume:anonymous`.
Additionally, most previously unprotected endpoints are now guarded by at
least one scope, to enable the following:

* To maintain current behavior, grant the `anomymous` role the following scopes:

  - `auth:current-scopes`
  - `auth:expand-scopes`
  - `auth:get-client:*`
  - `auth:get-role:*`
  - `auth:list-clients`
  - `auth:list-roles`
  - `github:consume-webhook`
  - `github:get-badge:*`
  - `github:get-repository:*`
  - `github:latest-status:*`
  - `github:list-builds`
  - `hooks:get:*`
  - `hooks:list-hook-groups`
  - `hooks:list-hooks:*`
  - `hooks:list-last-fires:*`
  - `hooks:status:*`
  - `hooks:trigger-hook:*`

>   - `index:find-task:*`

Reviewer 3: what about `index:list-namespaces*`?  Are there other scopes omitted here?

Reviewer 2: Good catch. It looks like the scopes that had `if ... else` were not caught by the grep command.

Additionally, most previously unprotected endpoints are now guarded by at
least one scope, to enable the following:

> * To maintain current behavior, the `anonymous` will need to be granted to some scopes. Refer to
> `the [anonymous scope section](https://docs.taskcluster.net/docs/manual/design/apis/hawk/authorized-scopes) in the docs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* To maintain current behavior, some scopes will need to be granted to the `anonymous`role. Refer to
`the [anonymous role section](https://docs.taskcluster.net/docs/manual/deploying/anonymous-role) in the docs.
```
